For each instrument, SMS is established on the basis of the average value of transactions (in
Euros), and LIS is calculated as a function of the average daily turnover (in Euros). These
calculations are done in accordance with the tables included below.


Existing exemptions from pre trade transparency requirements for equities have been retained
and extended to equity-like instruments8 (LIQUID)
under MiFID II. National competent authorities are
empowered to allow 4 kinds of pre trade transparency waivers to trading venues:
- Large in Scale (LIS) orders can avail a waiver from pre-trade transparency requirements
under MiFID II. This is designed to protect large orders from adverse market impact, price
movements and market distortion;
- Reference Price Waiver (RPW) facilitates dark trading as long as the execution price is the
midpoint of the spread as found on the reference market of the security. Where the midpoint
price is not available, the opening or closing price of the relevant trading session should be
taken as the Reference Price;
- Negotiated Trade Waiver (NTW) exempts systems that formalise negotiated transactions
provided that the trades are within the current volume weighted spread on the order book or
market maker quotes;
- Order Management Facility waiver (OMW) enables iceberg orders held in facilities operated
by regulated markets or MTFs, where only a portion of the order is visible.


Trading under the Reference Price Waiver and Negotiated Transaction Waiver for liquid securities will be restricted as follows:

the percentage of trading in a financial instrument carried out on a trading venue under those waivers shall be limited to 4% of the total volume of trading in that financial instrument on all trading venues across the EU over the previous 12 months.
overall EU trading in a financial instrument carried out under those waivers shall be limited to 8% of the total volume of trading in that financial instrument on all trading venues across the EU over the previous 12 months.

no pre-trade reports for NOT LIQUID instruemnts and trade reporting can be deffered

Order Management Facility (OMF)
Orders held in an order management facility of the trading venue pending disclosure. It allows iceberg orders! But they needto be at lest 10K euro for stocks quotes in euro and ESMA publishes thresholds yearly for other currencies
---------------------
MTF
-------------------------------
Whether or not a security has been "admitted to trading on a regulated market" is a key concept within MiFID, and is fundamental in how the rules apply to trading in the security. MTFs do not have a standard listing process and cannot change the regulatory status of a security.

MiFID lays out a number of obligations for an MTF to operate:

It must be pre-trade transparent, the price of existing orders must be made available on market data feeds.
An MTF may be exempted from pre-trade transparency via use of an appropriate waiver,[3] such as a large in size waiver or price referencing waiver - in this case the MTF will be a dark pool.
It must be post-trade transparent, any trades carried out on the platform must be published in real-time.
Prices and charges must be public and applied consistently across all members.
There must be a rulebook advising how the system works and a means for applying for membership



MIFID submitting an order
------------------------
Dealing on own account (DEAL)
? Matched Principal (MTCH)
? Any other trading capacity (AOTC)
A trading Participant is required to flag each Order with the relevant trading capacity. If this information is
not included, the Order will be rejected by Turquois


MIFID trade report
------------------

Investment Firm X receives an order from a client, Client A, to purchase a financial instrument.
Investment Firm X deals on own account by purchasing the instrument on Trading Venue M and selling
those instruments to Client A.
As noted above, the price of the different reports of Investment Firm X can be different, e.g. Investment
Firm X may buy from a venue/counterparty at GBP 0.352 and sell to Client A at GBP 0.370, in which
case Investment Firm X should report as:


